Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

Nehru Memorial College is an Autonomous, Aided institution affiliated to Bharathidhasan University established in 1967. The college offers various UG & PG Programmes and also promotes research & innovation in teaching-learning process in various disciplines with a special focus on Computer Science and Instrumentation.
Vision & Mission
Vision: For Knowledge, Justice and Peace.
Mission:
To impart the right kind of knowledge among the rural students with the aid of computers and other equipment,
To ensure social justice for the rural people through various academic and non-academic activities viz., cultural and Literary competitions, NSS, NCC, YRC, Gender Club etc.
To stabilize inner peace in the minds of the young learners through meditation and Yoga practice in order to ensure peace among the rural people.
Our Programmes & Campus Highlights
AICTE PROGRAMMES
Explore the latest AICTE-approved academic programmes and initiatives offered by our college.
DATA SCIENCE PROGRAMMES
Learn from hands-on courses and projects in Data Science, Machine Learning, and Analytics.
AIML
Advance your career with our AI & ML specialized courses, practical labs, and research opportunities.
CAMPUS LIFE
Experience vibrant campus life with events, clubs, cultural fests, and student activities.
“NMC has an A+ grade in NAAC. It's a great place for learning because my professors are excellent in teaching and have a friendly attitude. They provide hostel facilities for long-distance students, and there's a lot of freedom in the hostel for boys.”
Alumni
"Balanced Approach to Education"
"The college is known for its balanced approach to education—providing a mix of classroom learning, hands-on training, research, and co-curricular involvement. Faculty members are qualified professionals with industry and teaching experience, contributing to a holistic academic culture."
Alumni
"Friendly and Motivating Environment"
"I like this college for its friendly environment. My classmates are very helpful and caring, motivating each other in our studies. The staff is very talented and caring, like parents."