Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/nehru-academics-depart-botany.php
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

The Department of Botany was incepted in 2015 by introducing B.Sc Botany and during 2018, M.Sc Botany course was started . The Department was conferred as Research centre in 2018 , M.Phil and Ph.D Botany Programme have been offered. The Department has six faulty members and one academic support staff . The dept has a unique feature i.e., all faculty members are Ph.D holders.
The Department has organized 3 seminars, 4 workshops of both national and International levels. Seven Inspire Internship Science Camp sponsored by Department of Science and Technology (New Delhi) to the tune of 6, 825, 000/- have been completed and one Major Research Project is completed for Rs 12, 00, 000/ . The Department has completed one UGC Minor Project with a total cost of 3, 30, 000/-. Eight Research Scholars have been awarded with Ph.D Degree.
Students are trained with rich learning experience by exposing them with hands-on training, offered with high standard practical knowledge. The faculty members of botany are undertaking research and extension activities in the diversified fields of Botany: biodiversity and conservation, phytogeography, medicinal plants, plant nutrition, forest nursery technology, Rangelands and environmental management systems, phyto-chemistry, plant pathology, plant-microbe interaction, plant tissue culture, nano biotechnology and solid and liquid waste management. In order to provide hands on training to students, two separate well equipped laboratories with enough chemicals and sophisticated instruments such as PCR, Student microscope, Binocular microscope, Laminar Air Flow, Plant Tissue culture chamber, Autoclave, Gene Gun, Colorimeter, UV Spectrophotometer, Environmental shaker with incubator, Hot Air oven, pH meter, Digital Balance etc. Apart from this several field/ industrial visit are arranged to expose the students to the nature and also to the industrial Environs.
Nehru Memorial College (Autonomous)
College Road, Puthanampatti, Trichy Dt.,
Email : nmcfrontoffice@gmail.com
+91 98429 56720