Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/nehru-academics-depart-nutri.php
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

In today’s world the most compelling and imperative factor of health is food, either health food or diet food. Food and Nutrition is a science which involves the chemistry of food and biology of our body and the correlationbetween food and our body. Our students, in the process of studying nutrition, study human physiology, nutritional biochemistry, food chemistry, food microbiology, which are the basic principles behind good diet and ultimately the cornerstone of good health. Nutrition has become the major concern of our country. “Healthy food for all” is the motto of WHO and also our country. Nutritionists and Food Scientists play a major role in the socioeconomic development of a country. Our students are commissioned to take up practical internships at hospitals and food industries where they are given training and also project works. The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics was instituted in the year 2017 under self-financing stream.
Diet therapy and its applications in patient related setting is a major focus of dietetics. Diet plays a major role in promotion of health and well being of individual. A good and balanced diet habit improves the quality of life, while poor diet may lead to morbidity and diseases.
The Nutrition and Dietetics undergraduate programme came in effect in the reputed institution from the academic year of 2021. with a vision to provide high quality education to the students with hands on experience in food management, components of a balanced diet, eating habits, how to prepare a proper diet for people, and Lifestyle management, among others. The programme aims to improve the employability and interdisciplinary skills among the students and to meet out the increasing demand for Dietitians & Nutritionists in the area of health care and related industries. A degree in Nutrition and Dietetics is the first step towards a wide variety of careers options in Clinical and food industries, in hospital services, and in many biological and medical research divisions
Nehru Memorial College (Autonomous)
College Road, Puthanampatti, Trichy Dt.,
Email : nmcfrontoffice@gmail.com
+91 98429 56720