Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/nehru-academics-depart-datascience.php
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

In the Golden Jubilee (1967-2017) celebration of our college, we are the first institution to introduce Data Science programs under Bharathidasan University affiliated colleges in the academic year 2017-2018.The Department of Data Science is one of the pioneering departments of the Nehru Memorial College that offers the following degree programmes.
 
1. Three year Bachelor of Science in Data Science (BSc)
2. Two year Master of Science in Data Science (M.Sc)
It is committed to impart quality education in the field of data in statistics, mathematics and computer science, a rapidly field growing in analytics leaps and bounds.
Graduates from the Department of Data Science enter a diverse range of careers. Many option to work within the Financial Services sector with the Actuarial, Accounting and Investment Banking opportunities being particular favourites. These roles often involve the study for professional qualifications such as ACA, CIMA, CFA and the actuarial examinations. Other frequent career choices include e-Commerce, Business and Industrial Consultancy, Operational Research, Marketing, Scientific Research, and Government.
Data Science graduates develop a strong range of transferable skills including excellent numerical, problem-solving and analytical abilities. These along with the ability to communicate complex ideas effectively are highly sought after by employers. A number of students decide to continue in academia, studying for either a Statistics related Masters or PhD.
Data scientists are in high demand and career opportunities are plentiful. The graduates of Data Science will be well prepared to embark on a wide variety of careers, for example: INDUSTRY Industry is consistently short of people equipped to take on the deep analyses of data. Data Science graduates will be well placed to help fill this gap. Opportunities exist with companies in areas such as Information technology, Manufacturing, Pharmaceuticals, Finance, Telecoms, Market research, and a growing number of other areas.
Nehru Memorial College (Autonomous)
College Road, Puthanampatti, Trichy Dt.,
Email : nmcfrontoffice@gmail.com
+91 98429 56720