Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/nehru-academics-depart-english.php
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

The history of the Department of English goes along with the inception of Nehru Memorial College in 1967. From the beginning, the Department has been striving itself hard to equip the students with the English Language skills required for Employability, and hone the students’ Creative and Critical thinking. The Department plays a vital role in enhancing the communication skill of the students. The Department of English (Aided Stream) offers Part-II English for all the departments. The Department (Self-Financed Stream) has been offering B.A.English Literature Programme since 2009-2010. The Department has grown into a PG Department from 2014 onwards. Recently the Department has been upgraded as Research Department from 2019 offering M.Phil and Ph.D programs. (Full time and part time). This is the only department which feels proud to have contact with every student of the College through the General English Language Courses. The Department facilitates young and enthusiastic learners who come into the portals of NMC to develop right attitude, sharpen language skills and gain knowledge of literature to meet their career goals and live up to the expectations of the society.
The department has been fortunately endowed with a team of dedicated and committed staff members. They foster universal understanding and human values among the students through the study of literature. At present, there are 4 Regular Staff in Aided Stream and 13 in Self-Financed Stream, headed by Dr.K.T.Tamilmani, Associate Professor of English. The faculty members are ready to walk an extra mile with the students to enrich them with the essential ethics and human values. Curriculum and syllabi are updated periodically in accordance with global, national and local needs with a view to fulfilling the learning requirements of the rural students. We are proud to say that we have compiled, edited and published Eight Textbooks for Part-II English Language Courses with ISBN. Moreover, the Department functions with a wide range of activities under the aegis of Lyceum, Drama Club, Reflectory, Film Appreciation Club, Book Review Club, Public Speaking Forum, Quiz Club in order to bring out the inner potential of the students. Apart from these club activities, the department conducts a week-long Bridge Course every year to enhance the language skills of the beginners. The department also organizes Conferences, Seminars, Workshops, Special Lectures, Remedial coaching classes in addition to the regular class lectures every year so as to nurture the co-scholastic talents of the students. Thus, the Department functions to make a holistic development among the students.
Here are some of the milestones of the Department of English:
The Department has not slowed down its functioning even at the peak of COVID19 pandemic situation. It continued its academic activities with the help of Technology integrated Teaching methods among the students. Staff members carried out a lot of screen-based teaching and a substantial number of interesting videos were shown to drive home the relevant teaching point/idea.
Nehru Memorial College (Autonomous)
College Road, Puthanampatti, Trichy Dt.,
Email : nmcfrontoffice@gmail.com
+91 98429 56720