Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/nehru-research-researchpolicy.php
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

Staff members are encouraged to undertake research work and their research outcome shall be very useful to the nation and society in particular.
Staff members are motivated to participate in Seminars, workshops or conferences at national and International level and to present their research findings. In particular a paper presented at National/International level registration fee and travelling expenses will be met out by the college.
Staff are encouraged to publish research articles in journals listed in Web of Science/Scopus / SCI. As a token of appreciation each published paper will be awarded by cash prize.
Apart from the aforementioned activities, the research advisors are inspired to guide scholars as prescribed by the Bharathidasan Univeristy leading to M.Phil and Ph.D programmes. Each research degree Produced by the advisors will be honored by appropriate cash award.
Seed money shall be provided to Research advisers for preparing and submitting research proposal to various funding agencies such as UGC, DST, DBT, etc.,
RESEARCH AWARENESS:
Workshops or faculty Development programmes shall be conducted in the campus in order to impart a culture of preparing effective research proposals, creating awareness of Intellectual property right, ethic Research practices. Staff members shall also be motivated to attend such workshops / FDPs being organized at other institutes as well.
Staff members and research scholars are emboldened to adhere ethical guidelines issued by UGC from time to time. It is encouraged that the duty of the Research Advisor and Research Scholars concerned is to check plagiarism for the thesis / dissertations submitted by their scholars.
The PG Students and Research Scholars are motivated to qualify NET/SET examination and other fellowships like CSIR – SRF, RGNF, international/national fellowships etc.,
CONSULTANCY:
Staff are encouraged to involve/ provide their knowledge & expertise, problem solving, Targeted training, testing and laboratory based experimental work, market survey and research to the society, in serve as consultants.
Staff will be given due acknowledgement in the form of their consultancy services as prescribed by R&D cell/College Committee/ Governing Body.
The research policy shall be reviewed once in every three years or as and when it is required.