Source URL: https://nmc.ac.in/nehru-student-examin-examsystem.php
Tenant ID: nmc
--------------------------------------------------

Nehru Memorial College became Autonomous in 2004 and continues to be affiliated to Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli. The college has been given freedome to frame its own programmes at various levels viz., Under Graduate, Post Graduate, Certificate / Diploma / Advanced Diploma, Pre-Doctoral (MPhil) and adopt innovative methods of teaching and evaluation. In keeping with its tradition of promoting innovation and growth, the college had introduced the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) since 2005-2006 with the following objectives:
The evaluation method of CBCS with grading provides a much better picture of the academic personality of the students than the existing one with marks indicated in percentages. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) and Grade Point Average (GPA) are indicators of the academic performance of the students. The students can have horizontal mobility in choosing Non Major Based Electives (for UG programmes), Open Elective Course (for PG programmes), Certificate, Diploma and Advanced Diploma courses for their further empowerment with learning flexibility. The candidates are also permitted to choose Major Based Elective Courses of their choice among the courses offered by various departments.
This is a modern system which consists of Teaching, Learning and Evaluation introduced in Higher Educational Institutions to keep the curriculum relevant to the demands in Job Market. Students are offered with a choice of a variety of courses viz., Skill Based Courses, Non-Major Based Elective Courses and Major Based Elective Courses for improving their employability skills. They can choose any course of their interest and need during the period of study and earn extra credits and certificates in addition to the regular programme. In our College, Choice Based Credit System is followed in semester pattern. Under this system every course is fixed with certain credit points, based on the, quantum of subject matter, complexity of the content and the allotted instruction hours. This is done after a detailed discussion on the curriculum and syllabus content of each course by the Members of Board of Studies and then the same is formally approved by the Academic Council.
The office of the Controller of Examinations (COE) will issue application form for each student for registration to appear for Semester, Supplementary and Instant examinations.
The students will have to remit the prescribed fees in the college office during working hours of all working days before the due date.
The students will have to write the name of the course and its code in the space provided or put a (√) mark in the box provided.
Late applications after the due date will never be accepted by our office.
The office of the COE will prepare Hall tickets for all the registered candidates and send them to college office for issuing to the respective students.
The students who have lost their Hall Tickets can get his/her duplicate Hall Ticket after remitting Rs.100/- (Rupees One Hundred only) in the office of the COE.
Nehru Memorial College (Autonomous)
College Road, Puthanampatti, Trichy Dt.,
Email : nmcfrontoffice@gmail.com
+91 98429 56720